CSS :state() pseudo class (#32000)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/_colon_state/index.md

Elements provided by browsers can be styled based on these states using CSS pseudo-classes such as [`:hover`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:hover) and [`:visited`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:visited).
Similarly, [autonomous custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements#types_of_custom_element) (custom elements that are not derived from built-in elements) can expose their states, allowing the custom elements to be styled using the CSS `:state()` pseudo-class.

The states of a custom element are represented by string values. These values are added to or removed from a [`CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet) object associated with the element.
The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier, passed as an argument, is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

## Examples

### Matching a custom state

This CSS shows how to change the border of the autonomous custom element `<labeled-checkbox>` to `red` when it is in the "checked" state.

```css
labeled-checkbox {
  border: dashed red;
}
labeled-checkbox:state(checked) {
  border: solid;
}
```

> See the ["Labeled checkbox" in `CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) for a live example of this code in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Labeled checkbox"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.
```

### Matching a custom state in a custom element's shadow DOM

The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match custom states within the implementation of custom elements.

> This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

Author: I don't want to do this because I'm lazy. But I agree with you.

For example, in the [`CustomStateSet` labeled checkbox example](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox), the following CSS is used to inject a grey `[x]` before the element when it is in the "checked" state.

```css
:host(:state(checked))::before {
  content: "[x]";
  background: grey;
}
```

> ### Matching a custom state against a shadow part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Matching a custom state in shadow parts
```

> The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to target the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to target the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element.
```

> The shadow parts of a custom element are the parts of its shadow tree that it exposes to a containing page for styling purposes.

Reviewer: Rewording suggestion for compacting
```suggestion
Shadow parts are parts of a custom element's shadow tree that are exposed to a containing page for styling purposes.
```

Shadow parts are defined and named using the [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute.

> The [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo element is used to match against specific parts, and can be followed by `:state()` to match against parts with a particular state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element is used to match these parts, and can be followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class to match parts that are in the specified state.
```

> For example, consider a custom element named `<question-box>` that uses a `<labeled-checkbox>` custom element as part named `checkbox`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider a custom element named `<question-box>` that uses a `<labeled-checkbox>` custom element as a part named `checkbox`:
```

```js
shadowRoot.innerHTML = `<labeled-checkbox part='checkbox'>Yes</labeled-checkbox>`;
```

> The page CSS can then match against the part, and the part in a particular state, as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The page CSS can then match this part and style it based on its state, in this case `checked`, as shown below:
```

Author: Slight modification

```suggestion
The page CSS can then match the `checkbox` part and style it based on its `checked` state, as shown below:
```

```css
question-box::part(checkbox) {
  color: red;

> }
> question-box::part(checkbox):state(checked) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}

question-box::part(checkbox):state(checked) {
```

  color: green;
}
```

> A full (live) example is shown in the `CustomStateSet` example [Question box: exposing states in shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#question_box_exposing_states_in_shadow_parts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Question box"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#question_box_exposing_states_in_shadow_parts) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.
```

## Examples

### Matching a custom state

This CSS shows how to change the border of the autonomous custom element `<labeled-checkbox>` to `red` when it is in the "checked" state.

```css
labeled-checkbox {
  border: dashed red;
}
labeled-checkbox:state(checked) {
  border: solid;
}
```

For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Labeled checkbox"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.

### Matching a custom state in a custom element's shadow DOM

The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match custom states within the implementation of custom elements.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

For example, in the [`CustomStateSet` labeled checkbox example](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox), the following CSS is used to inject a grey `[x]` before the element when it is in the "checked" state.

```css

> :host(:state(checked))::before {
>   content: "[x]";
>   background: grey;

Author: ```suggestion
:host(:state(checked))::before { 
  content: "[x]";
```

}
```

> ### Matching a custom state in shadow parts

Author: ```suggestion
### Matching a custom state in a shadow part
```

The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to target the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element.

> Shadow parts are parts of a custom element's shadow tree that are exposed to a containing page for styling purposes.
> Shadow parts are defined and named using the [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute.
> The [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element is used to match these parts, and can be followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class to match parts that are in the specified state.

Author: "Shadow parts" on these lines looks repetitive.

```suggestion
Shadow parts are parts of a custom element's shadow tree that are exposed to a containing page for styling purposes.
They are defined and named using the [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute.
The [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element is used to match shadow parts, and can be followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class to match parts that are in the specified state.
```

> For example, consider a custom element named `<question-box>` that uses a `<labeled-checkbox>` custom element as a part named `checkbox`:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, consider a custom element named `<question-box>` that uses a `<labeled-checkbox>` custom element as a shadow part named `checkbox`:
```

```js
shadowRoot.innerHTML = `<labeled-checkbox part='checkbox'>Yes</labeled-checkbox>`;
```

The page CSS can then match against the part, and the part in a particular state, as shown:

```css
question-box::part(checkbox) {
  color: red;
}

question-box::part(checkbox):state(checked) {
  color: green;
}
```

> For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Question box"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#question_box_exposing_states_in_shadow_parts) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.

Author: ```suggestion
For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Question box"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#matching_a_custom_state_in_a_shadow_part_of_a_custom_element) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.
```

Elements provided by browsers can be styled based on these states using CSS pseudo-classes such as [`:hover`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:hover) and [`:visited`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:visited).
Similarly, [autonomous custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements#types_of_custom_element) (custom elements that are not derived from built-in elements) can expose their states, allowing pages that use the elements to style them using the CSS `:state()` pseudo-class.

The states of a custom element are represented by string values.
These values are added to or removed from a [`CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet) object associated with the element.
The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier, passed as an argument, is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match custom states within the implementation of a custom element.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

> Additionally, the [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class allows matching on the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element that are in a particular state (shadow parts are parts of a custom element's shadow tree that are explicitly exposed to a containing page for styling purposes).

Author: FWIW I am not a fan of making the "aside" into its own sentence and comment - the way I had it makes it more clear that the aside is associated with the first comment. I appreciate that this approach is common even though it is IMO ugly. Accepting as I always accept editorial comments unless clearly wrong or worse.

## Examples

### Matching a custom state

This CSS shows how to change the border of the autonomous custom element `<labeled-checkbox>` to `red` when it is in the "checked" state.

```css
labeled-checkbox {
  border: dashed red;
}
labeled-checkbox:state(checked) {
  border: solid;
}
```

> For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Labeled checkbox"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.

Reviewer: IIRC we don't use quotes around section and page names
```suggestion
For a live example of this code in action, see the [Labeled checkbox](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.
```

  content: "[x]";
}
```

For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Labeled checkbox"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.

### Matching a custom state in a shadow part

This example shows how the `:state()` pseudo-class can be used to target the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element.

Shadow parts are defined and named using the [`part`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes#part) attribute.
For example, consider a custom element named `<question-box>` that uses a `<labeled-checkbox>` custom element as a shadow part named `checkbox`:

```js
shadowRoot.innerHTML = `<labeled-checkbox part='checkbox'>Yes</labeled-checkbox>`;
```

The CSS below shows how the [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element can be used to match against the `'checkbox'` shadow part.
It then shows how the `::part()` pseudo-element followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class can be used to match against the same part when it is in the `checked` state.

```css
question-box::part(checkbox) {
  color: red;
}

question-box::part(checkbox):state(checked) {
  color: green;
}
```

> For a live example of this code in action, see the ["Matching a custom state in a shadow part of a custom element"](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#matching_a_custom_state_in_a_shadow_part_of_a_custom_element) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a live example of this code in action, see the [Matching a custom state in a shadow part of a custom element](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#matching_a_custom_state_in_a_shadow_part_of_a_custom_element) example on the `CustomStateSet` page.
```

Author: Arrggg. I know that. Thanks for catching.

Similarly, [autonomous custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements#types_of_custom_element) (custom elements that are not derived from built-in elements) can expose their states, allowing the custom elements to be styled using the CSS `:state()` pseudo-class.

The states of a custom element are represented by string values. These values are added to or removed from a [`CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet) object associated with the element.
The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier, passed as an argument, is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

## Examples

### Matching a custom state

This CSS shows how to change the border of the autonomous custom element `<labeled-checkbox>` to `red` when it is in the "checked" state.

```css
labeled-checkbox {
  border: dashed red;
}
labeled-checkbox:state(checked) {
  border: solid;
}
```

See [CustomStateSet](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) for a live example of this code in action.

> ### Matching a custom state inside a custom element

Author: ```suggestion
### Matching a custom state in custom element's shadow DOM
```

As per @dipikabh suggestion!

> Custom elements can also match against a custom state as part of their implementation.
> This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

Reviewer: What do you think rewriting the first sentence like this:
```suggestion
The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match and style custom states within the implementation of custom elements.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.
```

Author: A small modification because that implies that we're styling custom states, while we're styling custom elements. 

```suggestion
The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match custom states within the implementation of custom elements.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.
```

---
title: ":state()"
slug: Web/CSS/:state
page-type: css-pseudo-class
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.selectors.state
---

{{CSSRef}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`:state()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes) matches [custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements) that have the specified custom state.

> <!-- {{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/pseudo-class-state.html", "tabbed-shorter")}} -->

Reviewer: I think we can remove this comment (maybe track the task via an issue?).

There are a few other pseudo-class pages without interactive examples.In this particular case, adding an interactive example might make more sense after the feature becomes more widely available and can be used without setting any preferences.

## Syntax

The `:state()` pseudo-class requires a custom identifier representing a state to match as its argument.

```css-nolint
:state(<custom identifier>) {
  /* ... */
}
```

## Description

Elements can have states that change due to user interaction and other factors, such as "hover" when a user hovers over an element, or "visited" for links that the user has clicked.
Elements provided by user agents can be styled based on these states using CSS pseudo classes such as [`:hover`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:hover) and [`:visited`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:visited).
[Autonomous custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements#types_of_custom_element) (but not elements derived from built-in elements) can similarly expose their state, allowing the custom elements to be styled using the CSS `:state()` pseudo class.

The states of a custom element are represented by string values that are added to, or removed from, an attached [`CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet) object.

> The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier passed as an argument is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

Author: Thanks @dipikabh . This is better. I modified your text just a little to "(custom elements that are not derived from built-in elements)" as the previous wording implied a subset of autonomous custom elements rather than a different type of custom element (those derived from build in elements).

> The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier passed as an argument is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

Reviewer: Got it, that's a good catch and fix. Thanks!

## Examples

> ### Matching a custom element on a state

Author: Doh.

```suggestion
### Matching a custom state
```

This CSS shows how you to change the border of an autonomous custom element `<labeled-checkbox>` to red when it has the "checked" state.

```css
labeled-checkbox {
  border: dashed red;
}
labeled-checkbox:state(checked) {
  border: solid;
}
```

> See [CustomStateSet](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) for a live example this code in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [CustomStateSet](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) for a live example of this code in action.
```

> ### Styling with a custom state within a custom element

Reviewer: Seems like this can be reworded to better convey the intent.

Author: @dipikabh What I'm trying to do here is differentiate between the previous example which shows how you'd style a custom element that you are using, and this case, where we're styling the custom element inside its implementation.

I think this is better, but would be good for you to check.

```suggestion
### Matching a custom state inside a custom element
```

Reviewer: I see. This is good as is. Optionally, could it be made more apparent with something like:

> ### Matching a custom state in custom element's shadow DOM

Author: Yes, that's even better thank you.

> You can use `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) function pseudo-class to match a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function to match a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.
```

> You can use `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function to match a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

Author: ```suggestion
Custom elements can also match against a custom state as part of their implementation.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.
```

> For example, in the [`CustomStateSet` labeled checkbox example](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox) the following CSS is used to inject a grey `[x]` before the element when it is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the [`CustomStateSet` labeled checkbox example](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet#labeled_checkbox), the following CSS is used to inject a grey `[x]` before the element when it is in the "checked" state.
```

---
title: ":state()"
slug: Web/CSS/:state
page-type: css-pseudo-class
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.selectors.state
---

{{CSSRef}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`:state()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes) matches [custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements) that have the specified custom state.
> 
> <!-- {{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/pseudo-class-state.html", "tabbed-shorter")}} -->
> 
> ## Syntax

Author: ```suggestion
The **`:state()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [pseudo-class](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-classes) matches [custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements) that have the specified custom state.

## Syntax
```

Elements provided by browsers can be styled based on these states using CSS pseudo-classes such as [`:hover`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:hover) and [`:visited`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:visited).
Similarly, [autonomous custom elements](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements#types_of_custom_element) (custom elements that are not derived from built-in elements) can expose their states, allowing pages that use the elements to style them using the CSS `:state()` pseudo-class.

The states of a custom element are represented by string values.
These values are added to or removed from a [`CustomStateSet`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CustomStateSet) object associated with the element.
The CSS `:state()` pseudo-class matches an element when the identifier, passed as an argument, is present in the `CustomStateSet` of the element.

The `:state()` pseudo-class can also be used to match custom states within the implementation of a custom element.
This is achieved by using `:state()` within the [`:host()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:host_function) pseudo-class function, which matches a state only within the shadow DOM of the current custom element.

> Additionally, the [`::part()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::part) pseudo-element followed by the `:state()` pseudo-class allows matching on the [shadow parts](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_shadow_parts) of a custom element that are in a particular state (shadow parts are parts of a custom element's shadow tree that are explicitly exposed to a containing page for styling purposes).

Reviewer: Thank you!
